# Business Viability

The idea itself is useless because foreign bus systems have already excellently handled the situation, and hence the technology already exists. Hence, this idea will not be worked on post-hackathon. However, the idea is useful in itself, as in that it is a possible path the BMTC can take to improve their services. This is because the foreign bus systems we are speaking about are dependent on many systems which do not exist in India.

The existing buses do not allow for the driver alone to ticket passengers because there are multiple entrances to the bus. It would be problematic for the government to move away from existing suppliers, or demand vastly different vehicles from the existing contractors. Lobbyists, corrupt politicians, slow moving bureaucratic officials, and the media would make the process very difficult. The buses required to use the foreign systems are too expensive for Indians to pay for. The transition away from the existing suppliers would result in a noticeable number of jobs being lost.

Foreign bus systems are highly specific to the task at hand. Similar to how different fast food chains use different cash register software, different foreign bus systems constitute a combination of different locally produced systems.

Creating huge upfront investments in newer systems, while causing massive layoffs, when the BMTC is already under losses due to Namma Metro, is not a practical solution to the numerous problems BMTC currently faces. Osmosis is a new look at things, and a good one at that. However, even if Osmosis ends up proving to be a viable path to a better BMTC for everyone, it is a venture best taken up by a business. The only way that the team behind Osmosis could do it themselves, is with the aid of government funding, and by dropping out of college. This is impractical because government funding for such projects is insufficient to cover for anything more than the project’s costs (i.e., no living expenses), and the venture is best handled by people with industry connections and the cross disciplinary experience required in such an undertaking. Essentially, the team behind Osmosis would not be able to drop out of college to finish the project. But waiting until after college would cause other businesses to copy the idea, or the government to forget about the project. Hence, under no circumstances will this project be worked upon post-hackathon, not even as a hobby project.